live for us in Washington DC Heidi give
us some context on this how significant
is
it Rob this is the first of several
steps that would need to occur before
these sanctions actually become law but
this is significant that the US House of
Representatives that has long been
toying with this idea has now made good
on that threat in a vote of 247 to
155 they did pass this measure that
proposes sanctions against the icc's
judges and staff members and their
family members involve anyone who is
Prosecuting American citizens or
citizens of us allies that are not party
to the IC if you read between the lines
there it's clearly Israel and of course
this is something that was touted around
by Republicans right after we saw uh the
icc's chief prosecutor tried to get
these arrest warrants against the
Israeli leaders so it's something that
we had seen long coming but today's vote
had 42 Democrats joining their
Republican colleagues in approving this
measure which is also significant given
that this is pushing back against the
White House that just yesterday said it
strongly opposes this measure why
President Biden says though he also had
deep concerns about the seeking of
arrest warrants for Netanyahu he said
that this measure to sanction the ICC
was going too far he said he strongly
opposed it and that there would be more
effective ways to defend Israel the
president's words so again this is the
first of several steps but it is a
significant one and that delivers a
message that does have bipartisan
support let's talk about the process I
mean 42 Democrats getting behind this
how far is it likely to
get yeah the next measure the next step
would be the US Senate which is a very
different political scenario given that
it's controlled by democrats and it's
unclear whether or not the majority
leader there will even take up this
measure allow it to be voted upon and if
it does uh whether it has the support to
pass and then the final hurdle of course
would be the White House itself
President Biden could veto the measure
he hasn't said he would do that
explicitly but certainly in his strongly
worded opposition to it that's the veto
is certainly a threat here Rob hiid
thanks very much indeed hi Joe Castro
talking to us from Washington D.C
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer